("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
- [Ronja Voiceover] Lovis, I
am no longer Mattis' daughter.
That's why I have to go.
- [Narrator] When Ronja saw
Birk for the first time in days,
he was moving out
of Borka's keep.
Ronja decided to move
out of her home as well.
In the middle of the night,
she quietly kissed her
sleeping mother farewell,
then set out across the
forest to the bear's cave,
where Birk was waiting.
(cheerful music)
(distant hooting owl)
(faintly crackling fire)
When Ronja thought of
home, she couldn't sleep.
It's the same stars and
moon over Mattis' fort,
the same river rushing by
that she could hear back home.
With that thought,
she was finally able
to drift off to sleep.
(blowing wind)
(Birk shivering)
I'm so cold, I'm turning blue.
You know, dawn is the coldest
part of the day, and after,
after that it gets much warmer.
That's a comforting
thought, isn't it?
(shivering)
- Fire would bring more
comfort, don't you think?
A nice big one.
(clattering)
(blowing)
(crackling)
Mmm?
(sniffing)
(popping)
(gurgling)
(sighing)
Mmm.
(gurgling)
(faint sloshing)
Ah!
Ah.
Hmmm.
From now on, we'll be
drinking spring water,
or nothing else.
- It won't make us fat, and
it won't kill us either.
Ah...
Or we could ask Mattis
to bring us some milk.
(laughter)
Ronja?
- Huh?
- Do you realize, that we can do
whatever we want, whenever we
want, because now we're free?
- Yes (laughing)!
(surprised shouting)
(grunting)
(breathing hard and laughing)
(majestic music)
Aah!
The forest is now
our kingdoooooom!
(echoing)
No one can take it away from us!
(plunking splash)
No one can drive us out!
(rapping)
Cover your ears.
Are you ready to hear this?
My Spring Yell is coming!
(chuckling)
Aaaaaaa...
(deep breathing)
Aaaaaaaaaaaa...
Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!
(echoing)
- You know, I forgot
something really important.
- Huh?
- I must fetch my
bow and arrows,
because we're gonna
need protection.
Your Spring Yell is gonna
bring the harpies down on us.
- Where are your things?
They're...
Borka's Keep.
- (laughing) Oh no!
They're hidden in the woods!
Over there, in a
hollowed-out tree.
I had all kinds of
bits and pieces,
but I couldn't bring
everything with me at once,
so it's down there,
with everything else.
- Mattis said I was too young
to have a bow and arrow.
But what if I cut one
for myself from a tree?
If you don't mind me
using your knife, that is?
- Of course, but
you must be careful,
not to lose it!
That knife is the most
precious thing we have.
Without it, we won't survive
out here in the woods.
Hmm, you must remember
that, it's important.
- I won't forget, but there
are other important things
that we can't manage without.
(plucky music)
Like buckets to carry
all of our water.
Did you think of that?
(chuckling)
- Of course I've
had that thought.
But sadly only the
thought, not the bucket.
- Then my dear
brother you are lucky,
because I know exactly
where to get a bucket from.
- Really?
From where?
- Down in the healing
spring that Lovis uses.
Just below the Wolf's Neck.
(plucky music)
(grunting)
(splashing)
(distant screeching)
(screeching)
(vicious screeching)
(screaming and whimpering)
- Help!
(clattering)
(panting)
- Sturkas ended up coming home
without the water or the bucket.
(chuckling)
But you can bet anything
Noddle-Pete will soon need water
from the healing spring
for his weak stomach.
Sturkas will be forced
to go back to the spring
to find the lost bucket!
Lovis is going to see to
that, I'm telling you.
Trust me.
- You mean, if we get
there before he does,
the bucket is ours!
- Yes, but we must hurry there.
- [Both] Uh hmm.
(crunching)
- Come on!
- Right!
(cheerful music)
(rapping)
(giggling)
(chuckling)
Perfect.
(chirping birds)
- Wow!
Well I see you have
all the things we need
to survive here in the woods!
This is so exciting!
Look at all of this!
I promise, from now on
we will hunt and gather.
And defend ourselves
from the wild harpies,
and anything else
that might attack us.
Hmm!
- What's more, one thing
I know for certain,
(sniffing)
is that you and I
will surely get-
Oh!
- Be quiet!
There's something
moving inside our cave!
(faint grunting and crunching)
(tense music)
(faint crunching)
(suspenseful music)
(faint rustling and crunching)
- Come on out you harpies!
Or do you want to feel the end
of the sharpest spear
in all these woods?
Now come on out!
(faint rustling and crunching)
(suspenseful music)
(rustling and whispering)
Huh?
(whispering)
(clattering)
(grunting)
(whispering and rustling)
- [Both] Ahh!
(growling)
(chaotic rustling
and chattering)
(comical music)
(chattering and rustling)
(splashing)
(faint panting)
(faint ragged breathing)
(groaning)
(distant splashing)
(comical music)
(chattering and splashing)
- They're good swimmers,
those strange little beasts.
- [Birk] Good eaters too.
Look.
(gasping)
- All they've left is
this one loaf of bread.
- I can't believe those
little gray dwarves
ate that much
bread on their own.
- This is not a good sign.
The whole forest will hear
about our food from the dwarves,
hissing and spitting
with their chatter.
And then the harpies.
They'll know where to find us,
and the sky will be
full of their cries.
Although, you must show
no fear in the forest.
Mattis has been telling me that
ever since I was very little.
- Hmm, he's right.
But that's not the only thing.
We can't live in fear of
something that might not happen.
- Yes.
Exactly right.
- So why worry?
Let's see what things we
have, and also what we don't.
- Great.
And the things we
need we can gather
from around the forest,
and in the river.
(contemplative music)
(chirping birds)
(nearby rustling)
(gasp)
(gulping)
(sloshing liquid)
Aaah.
(panting)
(giggling)
(clattering)
(grunting)
(giggling)
(panting and giggling)
(sighing)
Oh?
Ah!
- Eh?
- [Both] Hey!
(snorting)
(pounding hooves)
(laughter)
(whacking and grunting)
(chirping birds)
(giggling)
(clattering)
(grunting)
(distant cawing birds)
(creaking bowstring)
Unh!
(clattering)
Huh?
(sighing)
(creaking bowstring)
(fluttering-whoosh)
Yeah!
(creaking bowstring)
(fluttering-whoosh)
Don't worry.
Tomorrow I'll cut some more.
Oh!
(crackling fire)
- Heee!
(giggling)
(delighted squealing)
(sniffing)
- Mmmm.
Birk, I'll cut some
new arrows tomorrow.
- Mmm hmm, that's great Ronja.
But please remember, you need
to take care of the knife.
- Yes I know.
It's one of the two
most precious things
that we have here,
the knife and the ax.
I haven't forgotten,
don't worry (chuckling).
(chuckling)
♪ Why don't you feed
♪ On the scraps
that I leave you ♪
♪ I promise this
♪ If my child you kiss
♪ That's the last
thing you'll do ♪
(blowing wind)
Oh Birk, do you
think that anyone
is thinking about
us at all back home?
Anyone?
Are our parents worried at all?
(blowing wind)
(rustling blankets)
- Hmm.
It would be rather odd if
they didn't think about us.
- I wonder mostly
if they're sorry.
- I imagine they're
thinking about it.
Undis will be sorry,
that's for sure.
But also she'll be pretty angry.
Borka will be angry
too, but underneath,
I think he'll be sad
at the same time.
- Lovis will be sorry.
That much I'm sure of.
- What about Mattis?
(blowing wind)
- I would think that
he's quite pleased.
Now that I'm gone, he
can forget all about me.
(blowing wind)
(sad music)
- [Narrator] That night,
Ronja had a dream.
(panting)
(distant sobbing)
- Huh?
(eerie ringing)
(sobbing)
(echoing sobbing)
(eerie ringing)
(echoing, giggling,
and laughing)
(cheerful music)
- [Narrator] Next time on
Ronja, The Robber's Daughter.
"The Lost Knife".
Don't miss it!
(cheerful music)